It was a long time ago on a cold winter evening 1987 after the Chernobyl explosion.
I was sitting in front of my TV and wondering why we spend only one school hour a week in front of a computer to study such serious skills as programming.
There was only one computer in my school.
And only a few people were able to cope with them, and then a very small number were able to accomplish the given tasks.
I was thinking about how to overcome the lack of computers in the classroom.
From friends of mine, I heard once about one smart man who had published an electric scheme and manual on how to build a personal computer. I was eagerly looking for that manual, and finally, I've found it and started analyzing which parts were available for purchase at the local market and which ones should be delivered.

In a half year, I finally made my first computer. Since that moment, my life was never the same.
There were no monitors available, so my computer was connected to the TV.
I was spending an enormous amount of time in front of it.
Very few programming languages were available at that time — only BASIC and Assembler.
So I started learning both by using xerox copies of artificial books.
There was no Google, no StackOverflow, no IDE at that moment, also no HDD, and no Flash drives.
Only cassette tape to retain your work results.
The learning process was very long, slow, tedious, and error-prone.

The first meaningful program, I was paid for, I wrote in 1991.
It was a hyphenation application for desktop publishing.
In 1992 I started my study on the Applied Mathematics faculty at the Kyiv Polytechnic Institute.
Until 1998 I was able to write code in a bunch of languages such as Basic, Assembler, Fortran, Pascal, Modula2, C, C++, Delphi.
In 1999 I got a relatively high position in Kyiv local company and started to code in Java, C++ industrial applications for call-centers and contact centers.
In 2001 I started managing a group of developers, which until 2011 grew up to 75 people.
In 2012 I realized my will for sharing the experience, so I've started teaching, training, and consulting.
So, since 1991, I write a code every day.
Nowadays, I write mostly in Scala, Java, TypeScript, JavaScript, and Elixir.
I have experience in very different fields such as Banking, Industrial Automation, Call-centres, Contact-Centers, Inquiry-Systems, Mobile content delivery, Billing, CRM / ERP systems, Logistics systems, Desktop Publishing, IoT, and many many more.
I have a lot of experience in all positions from a conventional developer and system administrator to C-level management, business owner, head of the supervisory board, and finally, I still am a teacher and mentor.
So, I'm lucky and proud of being here to share my knowledge.
I would like to emphasize that I started learning English only in 2017, so please be patient if sometimes I stumble trying to pick the most suitable word from my such intricated brains.
Thanks in advance!
