Interview.
I want to be interviewed by the person for who I will be working.
At least he has to be present in the audience.
For the whole, my conscious life, around 30 years, I have never been hired by the chained interview.
I have just been asked for, have been proposed and done what we have seen now.
Every day I was getting the email message "Do you open for a new job, do you ponder propositions to change your working place?" Of course, every time I'm answering "yes" because I  interested in something new, new opportunities for me on my job. At this moment, I began feeling a lot of negative emotions from employers. First of all, in my conscious life, I have never worked "for." All the time, I have worked "with." You may want to ask me, "What the Difference?" The difference is so easy to feel and understand. The difference is the same as between the boss and the leader. Every day you became anxious when you are going to work for the boss. It means you are the slave. On another side, when you are going to working with the leader, you anxious to do this. And, I have to say, until you don't feel the difference, there are not many chances to read this article to the end and understand me. The person working "for" might have felt his "guilt feelings.". The person working "with" will never have this "bad feelings." The employer's task and responsibility are to involve the person in working "with."

Payoff.
I have to say, I have never worked for monthly payments. Never.
All the time I worked, I get paid for completed work and completed the project or its tangible, measurable part.
It motivates me as a programmer. I never had any obligation to anybody. A software or module should be done before the deadline. The software should correspond to signed requirements. That is all.
 
Responsibility.
I'm against any kind of group responsibility. If it is my fail, it is my fail.
If it is my achievement, it is mine. No exceptions.
I will never be responsible for any group failure.
I will do my best to avoid, get rid of any problem, and prevent it in advance at any cost.

Things which motivate me:
Task isolation.
Responsibility borders.
Clear hierarchy.
Clear Payment structure.
Payment per results.
Project visibility.
Business transparency.
Office or Remote free to choose.
Career path.
A strong boss.

Things which I am not willing to be informed of:
Company Mission.
Company Location.
Company Size.
Company Structure.
Company Financial status.
Business domain.
Technical stack.
