Now we are going to our next location. As for me, based on frequency visiting, that location even may deserve the status must-visit and perfect destination.
It called The Toad Monument.
I have read a lot of exciting stories about this monument and put a lot of effort to make a compelling and comprehensive narrative.
And now, I am glad, and I am going to present my final version to you.

A few technical details.
Location. This monument situated near the Water Museum and Parkova road on the beautiful Dnipro river hills. The common name of this area is Mariinsky Park. Also, from this stunning location, you can behold the breathtaking sight on the Kyiv hills and the Podil district.
I would like to say this monument built in the 2010 year.
It made of bronze and weight around six tons.
This monument is a gift to Kyiv city of well-known Kyiv sculptor Oleg Pinchuk.

And now, we are going to describe the appearance of this sculpture.
This monument is 360-degree. It means that you can see it from any side and able to observe a precise, detailed view.
Perhaps, the front of our monument is the best place to observe it. You can see the toad’s mouth.
The main thing I want you to pay attention to, this toad stands on coins under their feet. We will refer to this little bit later.

Now I would like to say that this monument has two different names.
The first one is “Money Frog.” This unofficial name, given by the Kyiv citizens.
The second one, official name, is the “Toad Monument.”
Why the unofficial name using the word “Frog” instead of “Toad”? Because of Ukrainian language doesn’t have a unique word to describe the particular type of frogs who spend less time in the water and have lumpier skin.

Now we are going to understand the meaning of this monument.
Those coins, on which stands our toad, symbolize financial well-being.
Most people believe that this toad is able to fulfill their wishes.
To attract wealth into your life, you need to rub the nose in the mouth of a frog and throw a coin into the slot in his mouth.
There is a legend that the toad has an enormous bucket inside, where collected all the money thrown by the tourists. And when the bucket overflows, the mechanism begins to work by a distinct algorithm, and someone from the tourists will have got a jackpot.
Now I want to deliver to you second meaning. It partially based on the Ukrainian mentality, which is called “Zhaba.”
“Zhaba” is the Ukrainian word for the English word “Frog.”, which has an idiomatic meaning “wretchedly to spend the money on something.”
And finally, I want to say about one more detail that practically impossible to find in any media.
People who were living in the USSR times had been spending a lot of their free time there, because a lot of discos called “Zhaba” had conducted there.

And now that is all that I wanted to tell you about that monument.
Thank you for your attention.
And now we are going to our next destination.
